And they're going to be divided into those which are pretty much outside of your control things that
you can't really do very much about.
And those that are very much inside your control.
Now it's obviously more interesting to know about the ones inside your control.
But it's worth a mention here anyways.
What are the other things that contribute.
So when you are newly launched you get a boost in the search algorithm.
It's a way of helping people discover new projects and generating momentum for that project.
Now when you go into Kickstarter and you look at everything sorted by newest you'll see all of the new
projects and some of them already start to show traction.
And those are the ones that are going to be pushed even further up.
The Kickstarter algorithm.
So if you look at most successful project funding graphs on click track you'll see that it follows very
much this kind of shape where the gradient is very steep in the beginning of the project.
And also at the end of the project.
So that means that in the beginning and the end maybe one or two days where people are pledging the
fastest So the rates of pledges coming in is the fastest and that gradient also determines to a great
deal where you're going to rank on Kickstarter itself.
So if you look at these graphs and you look at the initial gradient so the first few days that gradient
is mostly determined by how much traffic you're going to bring to your campaign.
But when you look at the graph and if you look at towards the end the last two days of your project
when that graph is steep that usually means that there's a lot of traffic that's being brought to you
by Kickstarter itself.
So the beginning and the end parts are where you want to pay attention to in a particular project to
see where they got their traffic from.
And as you can see from our project even though we did have quite a steep first few day pledge rate
it was nowhere near as crazy as towards the end.
That graph almost inflect upwards and that reflects how many people were coming in mostly through the
kickstarts platform discovering the fact that our project was about to end.
And they were hitting the pledge button in quick succession.
So this is another thing.
So this is the other factor that you can't really control when your project is newly listed or when
it's about and you're going to get a boost in the popularity algorithm on Kickstarter on Indiegogo and
that's just simply because most people want to discover projects that are about and or the projects
which are new.
So this is again something you can't really control.
You can control when it starts and when it ends try and coincide with periods of most activity on Kickstarter.
But you can actually and many times right and you can't begin many times in one project lifecycle.
So these are just things to be aware of.
Now the other thing that's pretty much outside of your control is the almost a funded moment in your
project lifecycle.
So the point where you almost reach your goal maybe you are just about 10 percent away from your goal
amount and that is the point where you also get a small boost in the search algorithm where you will
where you're more likely to be seen on the popular pages on Kickstarter.
And the reason for this is twofold.
One Kickstarter once that projects to succeed because in most cases on Kickstarter project are all or
nothing based.
So you either raise everything you reach your goal or you don't get any of the money.
So it makes sense for Kickstarter to try and promote those who are really really close to reaching their
goal so that they themselves get paid as well.
You've also got Web sites like kicks Savir where they are promoting and pushing projects that are almost
about to reach their goal.
It's just a way of and encouraging people to pledge and drive that last little bit towards success.
And the last thing that is kind of outside media control although we're going to talk about that later
on thing that you can do to improve your chances of being picked by the editor as a project that Kickstarter
loves to pick depends on human factors so whether they pick you or not is not really something inside
your control.
But when you are picked by any staff member at Kickstarter you get a little badge that says project
we love and you also get a small boost in your rankings in the search algorithm.
So we're going to talk later about how you can maximize your chances of being featured or being picked
by the editor.
But for now we'll put it into the pot where you can control.